joeflow
=======

**The lean workflow automation framework for machines with heart.**

.. figure:: docs/img/pexels-photo-1020325.jpeg
   :alt: a hand drawn robot

Joeflow is a free workflow automation framework designed to bring
simplicity to complex workflows. Joeflow written in `Python`_ based on
the world famous `Django`_ web framework.

Here is a little sample of what a process written in joeflow may look
like:

.. code-block:: python

   class WelcomeProcess(Process):
       user = models.ForeignKey(
           settings.AUTH_USER_MODEL,
           on_delete=models.CASCADE,
           blank=True, null=True,
       )

       start = tasks.StartView(fields=['user'])

       def has_user(self, task):
           if self.user_id is None:
               return []
           else:
               return [self.send_welcome_email]

       def send_welcome_email(self, task):
           self.user.email_user(
               subject='Welcome',
               message='Hello %s!' % self.user.get_short_name(),
           )

       edges = (
           (start, has_user),
           (has_user, send_welcome_email),
       )

Design Principles
=================

Common sense is better than convention
--------------------------------------

Joeflow does not follow any academic modeling notation developed by a
poor PhD student who actually never worked a day in their life.
Businesses are already complex which is why Joeflow is rather simple.
There are only two types of tasks – human & machine – as well as edges
to connect them. It’s so simple a toddler (or your CEO) could design a
workflow.

Lean Automation (breaking the rules)
------------------------------------

Things don’t always go according to plan especially when humans are
involved. Even the best workflow can’t cover all possible edge cases.
Joeflow embraces that fact. It allows uses to interrupt a process at any
given point and modify it’s current state. All while tracking all
changes. This allows developers to automate the main cases and users
handle manually exceptions. This allows you businesses to ship
prototypes and MVPs of workflows. Improvements can be shipped in
multiple iterations without disrupting the business.

People
------

Joeflow is build with all users in mind. Managers should be able to
develop better processes. Users should able to interact with the tasks
every single day. And developers should be able to rapidly develop and
test new features.

Free
----

Joeflow is open source and collaboratively developed by industry leaders
in automation and digital innovation.

*Photo by rawpixel.com from Pexels*

.. _Python: https://python.org
.. _Django: https://www.djangoproject.com/
